>> Mike North: So
back into the world of TypeScript.
So we talked about object literals,
rest and spread properties, getters and
setters.
We're gonna shift gears now,
move away from objects and into functions.
So functions have types,
just like any other value in JavaScript.
They have a first class value type in
JavaScript, or a first class value type in
JavaScript, and
a first class value type in TypeScript.
So on top we have a function type.
And you can see like any other value,
we've got the name of a variable,
a colon, and then something.
And that something describes the type.
And what we have here is the arrow
function notation here, and
I advise that you always use this, right?
There are other things
you may see out there but
I advise that like this is the more
conventional thing to do for
TypeScript that is
written from here on out.
And what we have here are arguments having
particular names, and particular types.
And a return type, and
that's what that fat arrow is used for.
It almost looks like an arrow function,
except what we're returning is
not an expression, it's a type.
Below, we have the value of that function.
So this up top,
you can call this a variable declaration.
And on the bottom,
you can call this a variable assignment.
They kind of look the same.
Note that if we already know that like
this function has a particular type,
we are freed from having to do any
type annotations on that second line.
Because we already know it's
the same thing as like when we say,
if we were to say we've got a card and
we define that this is a card and
then we pass something in, it's gonna
figure out what's going on there.
Or a better example would be if we say
we have a empty array of numbers and
we've defined that this variable
is of type numbers square bracket.
On the right hand side, we can just have
an empty array literal and we're fine.
That's a numbered array.
Typically, you only need types on
one side of the assignment operator.
>> Mike North: So, that's pretty cool.
And again, you can use this anywhere else
that you would use type annotations.
Meaning if you had an array of functions.
That may seem strange.
But that's how listeners work, right?
Add a mouse listener, so
we create an array of functions.
And then we loop over that array and
then evoke each one of those functions.
And you could define that
like probably wrapping
that whole function type in parentheses.
And adding square brackets to
the end of it and there you go.
You've got an array of functions and
each one of those functions should take
arguments of certain types and
have a return type that matches that,
which is fantastic.
>> Mike North: So,
we can use interfaces to
define function types as well.
This is starting to get a little abstract.
So you would call this an interface
that describes the call signature,
right, the call signature
like a function call.
So on the left side instead of the name
of a property, we have parentheses.
Think of those as like the parentheses
that indicate you're invoking a function
as opposed to getting
a value of off something.
Does that make sense to everyone?
And so what we're saying here for
this interface,
we expect to receive as
an argument a mouse event.
And the return type is void.
So if we have a click listener here,
we can use that click listener,
we can basically say, you're gonna receive
an event, and then you can console log.
We don't have to return anything.
And in fact, we can add this event
listener in the following way.
So the way this works, and that works.
>> Mike North: So
the way this works, it ensures that these
functions are bound to
the appropriate context.
So hopefully you should at least at some
level where you kind of
know it when you see it.
You should have an understanding for
how this works in JavaScript, right?
It is the calling context of the function.
In this case you might
have a click listener
that really depends on being
called in a particular context.
And what we're saying here is that,
click listeners, when you refer to this,
it can only be referring to a window type.
So this would be a situation where,
when you invoke these functions,
you are going to invoke it
in a very specific context.
And that prevents anyone who is
implementing one of these things.
Right, if you implemented a different
click listener in this second part here,
and you were saying like,
this.x = 57 like you expected some
other thing there, you can't just go and
treat it like any old thing.
You must treat it as a window object,
right.
So if for example you were to try to
invoke it directly like this, right?
Where undefined is the calling
context in strict mode,
undefined is the calling context.
Basically it's saying
the calling context is void,
you can't just invoke
a mouseListener like this.
You'd have to do myListener.apply
window comma bracket new MouseEvent.
Does that make sense?
So this gives us type safety even on
the calling context, which is fantastic